
You will find in the tests/ subdirectory various programs to exercise
the Hamlib library.

Most of the time, you will have to make sure that the backend for
your rig is loaded by passing the model number of your rig by argument.
If you don't know the number, listrigs can give it to you,
"rigctl --list" will also output something like this:

    Rig#    Mfg           Model           Vers.
    1       Hamlib        Dummy           0.1
    105     Yaesu         FT-747GX        0.1
    210     Kenwood       TS-870S         0.1
    311     Icom          IC-706MkIIG     0.2
    1506    Winradio      WR-3500         0.6
    [etc.]

In any case, you are encouraged to check for correct initialization
by reading the source code, at the beginning of the main().  Check also
that the program is setup for your rig path strncpy(my_rig->state.rig_path...

dumpcaps  - Output the caps contents of a rig
dumpmem   - Dump the memory contents of the rig
listrigs  - Condensed list of all the models supported by backends
rigmatrix - Output the HTML table of supported rigs, with .png files for freqs
            (Better call 'make rigmatrix.html' which builds the HTML table
            and additional information in sup-info subdirectory.)
testbcd   - Simple program to test BCD conversion, takes a number as arg.
testfreq  - Simple program to test Freq conversion, takes a number as arg.
testrig   - Sample program calling common API calls, uses rig_probe
testtrn   - Sample program using event notification (transceive mode)
rigctl    - Combined tool to execute any call of the API, see man page
rigmem    - Combined tool to load/save content of rig memory, see man page
rotctl    - Similar to 'rigctl' but for rotators, see man page
rigctld   - A simple daemon to process 'rigctl' commands received over a
            network socket.  Useful for scripting languages or remote access
            via an SSH tunnel (unsecure program).  See man page.
rotctld   - A simple daemon to process 'rotctl' commands received over a
            network socket.  Useful for scripting languages or remote access
            via an SSH tunnel (unsecure program).  See man page.
testctld.pl A Perl program to test 'rigctld' and provide some example code.
